1. we prefer certainty to uncertainty, even if the certainty is bad
2. Humans hate uncertainty. We prefer certainty, even if it comes with pain.
3. our minds are superbly attuned to finding patterns. And when we can’t detect a pattern, we get antsy.
4. OUR MINDS ARE SUPERBLY ATTUNED TO FINDING PATTERNS. AND WHEN WE CAN’T DETECT A PATTERN, WE GET ANTSY.
5. The combination of feeling stress when we experience uncertainty and pleasure when it’s resolved makes our need for certainty a primary human motive that drives large swaths of our behavior.
6. In general, there are four primary things we do when faced with uncertainty:
   - WE SEEK COGNITIVE CLOSURE
      - Our aversion to uncertainty creates a need for immediate answers. We achieve resolution by grabbing the first possible explanation that fits our worldview, and we stick to it even if contrary information surfaces because we don’t want to revisit the uncertainty.
      - Under conditions of diffuse uncertainty, people are drawn, as if by a magnet, to simplistic solutions and black-and-white reasoning. Some gravitate to the pole of denial that nothing is wrong, others to that of utter panic, the belief that the worst is sure to come.
   - WE TURN INTO INFORMATION JUNKIES
     - Many things in life are unknowable, and no amount of information will change that.
     - knowledge in three categories: known unknown unknowable
     - Looking for information about the unknown but potentially knowable is useful. But when you’re dealing with the unknowable, more information isn’t worthwhile and may generate a false sense of certainty. The key is to recognize what’s unknowable versus what’s merely unknown.
   - WE SEEK PREDICTIONS FROM EXPERTS
     - Knowing what you don’t know and what you can’t and won’t know is necessary for successful investing.
   - WE ASSOCIATE WITH GROUPS WHO THINK LIKE WE DO
     - An opinion, a belief, an attitude is perceived as “correct,” “valid,” and “proper” to the extent that it is anchored in a group of people with similar beliefs, opinions, and attitudes. Individuals’ understandings of the world are held as true to the extent that they can be affirmed by some social group.
     - we attempt to reduce uncertainty and protect ourselves from its discomfort by associating with others who agree with and validate our attitudes and values.
     - rather than seeking that kind of spurious comfort, you’d be better served by being open to thoughts beyond your current groups.
7. LETTING IT BE
   - SIT IN YOUR DISCOMFORT
     - Sitting in discomfort is a good strategy for painful emotions; it’s also an essential behavior to practice in the face of uncertainty
     - Face, Accept, Float, Let Time Pass
       - Face that you are experiencing uncertainty that’s causing stress and anxiety. Acknowledge the discomfort and don’t run from it.
       - Accept the situation and that the uncertainty can’t be immediately resolved.
       - Let your feelings of stress, anxiety, and fear float by—observe your emotions but stay above them.
       - Let Time Pass without impatience, fear, or anger. Let things play out.
     - when in doubt, do nothing.
     - When you feel compelled to act on your portfolio, go for a walk. Read a good book. Start a home project. Try not to look at your portfolio. I know that the more I look at my portfolio, the more I’m apt to tinker. Tinkering seldom works out well.
   - FOCUS ON WHAT YOU CAN CONTROL
     - When you feel the stress of uncertainty, ask yourself if it’s because you aren’t in control
