```text
Investing isn’t about beating others at their game. It’s about controlling yourself at your own game.
```
1. the paradox of the unsophisticated sibling

   **Unsophisticated investors often have better investment behaviors than more sophisticated ones.**
2. the paradox of the small portfolio

    small portfolios typically outperform larger ones. Why?

    **Our clients tend to pay less attention to their smaller portfolios, and that’s a good investment behavior**

- IN PRAISE OF INACTIVITY (AND FEMALE INVESTORS)
    
  1. **You thought you could do it even though you’d never done it before.** (行动说话，未达成前需提醒自己保持警惕) 
  2. **If more trading leads to lower returns, then trading less should mean better returns, which is precisely what the study found.**
  3. **More activity leads to lower returns**
  4. **That inactivity is more profitable than activity is an essential mental model to have in our toolbox.**
  5. **Follow simple algorithms** (大道至简，采用简单的线性策略)

- THE BEAUTY OF SIMPLE ALGORITHMS
1. **Simple algorithms provide a way to cut through the multitude of factors that may or may not be relevant to a decision and focus us on the most important ones.**

- SIMPLE ALGORITHMS IMPROVE EXPERT JUDGMENT
1. Examples where simple algorithms lead to better outcomes than human judgment alone abound.
2. showed a simple formula can predict whether a marriage will be successful: **the rate of sexual intercourse minus the rate of arguments.**
3. **Predefined and relevant criteria focus decision making and cut through the noise.**

- SIMPLE ALGORITHMS IN INVESTING

**Investing is fraught with noise and behavioral pitfalls.We need simple rules to save us from ourselves.**

```text
1. An asset allocation strategy. That is, the proper mix of stocks, bonds, cash, real assets, private equity, and venture capital for different types of portfolios.
2. A rebalancing policy. This is the set of rules for when some investments are sold, and others purchased.
```
**Guidelines about selecting and firing investment managers.
Rules like these take emotion out of investing and focus decision making on math** :

1. The simple rules of asset allocation and rebalancing force you to buy low and sell high—the very definition of successful investing. Plus, selling what has gone up and buying what has gone down takes advantage of regression to the mean.
2. **To be a successful investor, boring and unsexy is usually the way to go.** (And with all the time you’ll save not reading and researching the markets you can work on adding sexiness to other areas of your life.)

- CHOOSE SIMPLICITY OVER COMPLEXITY
  - INVESTMENT INDUSTRY ENTROPY
  
  **In physics, entropy refers to a closed system’s general progression from order to disorder. It’s one of the universe’s fundamental laws and is summarized as “things fall apart.“Entropy gives time its arrow; the past flows into the future, not vice versa.**
  1. Have these innovations and the accompanying rise in complexity been beneficial to investors? The answer, on the whole, appears to be no.
  2. **Financial institutions operate by a kind of reverse Occam’s razor. They have a large incentive to favor the complex and costly over the simple and cheap, quite the opposite of what most investors need and ought to want.**

  **But should you really buy ETFs that focus on specific themes or sectors?
Do you know something other investors (including the pros) don’t know about EV stocks?
As we learned in Chapter 7, investing in trends is challenging.**

- SHOULD YOU INVEST LIKE A UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENT?

1. **many universities are spending a lot of time, resources, and expense trying to emulate the top-performing endowments without much to show for it. For individual investors, this should be a red flag. If endowments, with all their resources, aren’t doing any better as a group than a simple index portfolio, then the odds are against individual investors matching the returns of the top endowments by using the Yale model.**
2. **the individual investor in which he advised broad diversification using index funds, disciplined rebalancing, and a long-term focus.**

   - THE ALLURE OF INVESTMENT COMPLEXITY

   1. **I’ve noted there’s a correlation between a portfolio’s size and how complex people expect it to be. No one at the conference would have batted an eye if I’d proposed just two funds for a $100,000 portfolio. But $1 billion invested in just two funds? Heresy! The bigger the portfolio, the stronger the siren song of complexity.**
   2. **Portfolios often end up stuffed with complexity because advisors need to justify their existence.**

   - WHEN ADDING COMPLEXITY IS JUSTIFIED

   1. **Simplicity is an essential mental model when making investment decisions.** That doesn’t mean that every investor should have only two or three index funds. But we should start with simplicity as our default and view complexity with skepticism. We should only add complexity to portfolios **when doing so outweighs the benefits of simplicity.**

- WHAT GOOD INVESTMENT BEHAVIOR LOOKS LIKE

1. **Unsophisticated siblings are better at following the simple rules of asset allocation and rebalancing and resisting the urge to tinker.**
2. **more attention often means more activity, more tinkering. More attention makes it harder to follow the simple rebalancing algorithm with larger dollar amounts.**

- EIGHT INVESTMENT BEHAVIOR BEST PRACTICES

**Practicing good investment behavior is simple but not easy. It’s not easy because we’re human.** We seek (and often kid ourselves that we find) certainty in an uncertain world. We are at the mercy of fear and greed. But a fantastic thing about being human (in addition to our opposable thumbs) is that we can decide to override our emotions and baser instincts.

1. eight best practices that will help you exercise optimal investment behavior:
   1. **Choose inactivity over activity. Don’t tinker with your portfolio. Don’t try to time the markets. When fear or greed makes you want to change things up, take a deep breath. Then take another.** If you’re a man, tell yourself to invest like a woman. If you’re a woman, try to invest like a dead person.
   2. **Prefer simplicity over complexity. Start with simplicity as your default. Only add complexity if there is a good reason to do so. Complexity makes good behavior harder, adds fees, and generates more taxes.**
   3. **Create an investment policy statement. This will set up your investing algorithms. Follow them.** The simple rules of asset allocation and rebalancing will provide guardrails for your behavior and improve your returns.
   4. **Build a margin of safety into your portfolio. Have enough cash that you won’t be forced to sell assets when they’re down (you want to buy low and sell high, not the reverse).** What’s a reasonable margin of safety? **Our firm advises one to three years of portfolio withdrawals to be held in cash.** Plus, having a portion in high-quality bonds provides an additional safety margin. Having sufficient cash and bonds also makes it emotionally easier to ride out stormy markets.
   5. **Focus on the long term. When the market drops, remind yourself that you don’t need to cash out today, next week, next month, or even next year. So don’t focus on those periods.**
   6. **Don’t look at your portfolio.** When the market is up, frustration with lagging investments might lead you to sell them.When the market is down, seeing your losses (which, remember, are only on paper) will cause stress, leading you to tinker. Don’t.
   7. **Have a “play” account.** Some people are fine with simplicity and inactivity; others enjoy researching and investing in individual companies. If you fall into this latter category, having a play account that’s relatively small where you buy individual stocks, thematic ETFs, and tinker can provide a nice outlet for your “bad” investing behavior. Having this release will help you to practice good behavior in your larger, more serious accounts.
   8. **Find the right advisor. Following the seven behavior best practices listed above is easier with the guidance of a humble and wise investment advisor. Vanguard champions a concept called “advisor’s alpha,” which outlines “how advisors [can] add value, or alpha, through relationship-oriented services such as providing cogent wealth management through financial planning, discipline, and guidance, rather than by trying to outperform the market.” ¹⁶ That’s the type of advisor you should look for—one who will help guide your behavior rather than someone who constantly strives to prove their value by suggesting hot investments and loading your portfolio with complexity.**
