1. the small actions of individuals can cause broad, disproportionate, and often irrational outcomes for the system.

- THE ECONOMY DOESN’T PREDICT THE STOCK MARKET

1. the stock market is not the economy; economic news does not predict what will happen in the market.

- THE ECONOMY AND THE STOCK MARKET ARE NOT CORRELATED

1. The stock market and the economy are related, but that doesn’t mean they rise and fall in tandem. Just because the economy is contracting doesn’t mean that the stock market will decline. History shows us that GDP growth is not a good predictor of future stock prices.
2. investor decision making tends to anticipate the economy’s changed circumstances, and the empirical evidence supports this claim. Stock market fluctuations predict changes in GDP, but movements in GDP do not predict stock market returns. Over time, forward-looking predictions of economic change are incorporated in today’s fluctuations in the stock market.
3. Surprises move markets, not expected news, because market prices reflect the range of expected news
4. During times of market volatility, even under the threat of a recession, your first step should be to continue to rely on the investment discipline you put in place when times weren’t so scary. For most people, this means sticking with the asset allocation you established before the market turmoil and rebalancing according to that allocation.

- WHY THE STOCK MARKET DOESN’T MAKE ANY SENSE

1. Stock market gyrations often defy explanation because the market is a complex adaptive system. In a complex adaptive system, understanding each component input doesn’t mean we can understand the system’s outputs.
2. system-level results are often greater than the sum of the parts because the market consists of heterogeneous actors (called agents) that interact with each other in ways that make system-level predictions difficult or impossible.
3. In complex adaptive systems, intelligent agents learn and change their behavior accordingly—sometimes rationally, sometimes irrationally—as circumstances change.Changing behavior creates feedback loops as the output from one result becomes the next iteration’s input. Feedback can amplify small actions into large and unexpected results. Positive feedback loops create system-wide results that aren’t predictable by observing the actions of individual agents.

- COMPLEX ADAPTIVE SYSTEMS CAN GENERATE EXTREME RESULTS

1. When humans interact with each other in social systems, extreme outcomes occur that defy prediction. 
2. complex human interactions create feedback loops that can result in extreme outcomes.

- WHY IT’S IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND THAT THE MARKET IS A COMPLEX ADAPTIVE SYSTEM

1. The fact that the stock market operates as a complex adaptive system is an essential concept to put in our toolbox of mental models.
2. Knowing that the market is a complex adaptive system goes a long way toward explaining why successful investment strategies don’t remain successful indefinitely: agents within the system learn, adapt, and change until the strategy no longer works.

- ECONOMIC INDICATORS DON’T PREDICT THE STOCK MARKET

1. Thinking of the stock market as a complex adaptive system allows us to understand why economic and market indicators don’t predict stock market returns.
2. once indicators that could predict the market are known, their effectiveness either diminishes or disappears (or maybe the indicator’s predictive ability was just a spurious correlation).
3. investors should not use economic indicators to make investment decisions
4. **The future is difficult to predict.**


- THE MENTAL MODELS AND HOW TO APPLY THEM

1. The stock market is not the economy. Economic growth and stock market performance are not correlated
2. The stock market is a complex adaptive system, which is why it often seems to make no sense.
3. Because the stock market is a complex adaptive system, economic indicators and market signals don’t predict market performance.
4. **Instead of looking to the economy to inform investment decisions, remember that the stock market is not the economy. Do not let irrelevant, external information change your investment behavior. Instead of trying to predict what the market will do, invest as if you don’t know, which is rational, because you don’t.** Most of what is reported in the financial media and discussed by investment analysts is “right of rainfall.
5. Thinking of the stock market as a complex adaptive system that is constantly evolving and changing is difficult because humans are hardwired to find patterns and attach meaning to them.
6. **fooling yourself that the market can be reliably predicted will not make you a better investor. Instead, embrace your ignorance**; realize that neither you nor anyone else can predict what will happen.