```text
The only function of economic forecasting is to make astrology look respectable.
```

**even the most esteemed and successful financial experts have no more idea what the future holds than any of us do.**


- HOW GOOD ARE EXPERTS AT PREDICTING THE FUTURE?
  - POLITICAL PREDICTIONS
    1. The more confident an expert is, the less accurate the predictions. A related finding was that being confident in predictions helped experts get quoted in the news and interviewed on TV. This means the experts we hear from most are simply the most confident ones, not the most reliable ones.
  - INVESTMENT PREDICTIONS
    1. Predictions by investment experts are just like those of political pundits: that is, nearly worthless.
    2. Trying to predict the future is a waste of time and breath because unexpected events such as global pandemics, wars,
       and natural disasters occur all the time.
    3. Even when unexpected events become known, predicting how the stock market will react is problematic. It’s like
   throwing darts at a dartboard blindfolded.
  - ECONOMIC PREDICTIONS 
    1. Physicists can explain 99 percent of all observable physical phenomena using Newton’s three laws of motion. Economists wish we had three laws capable of explaining 99 percent of all observable behavior in our professional purview. Instead, we probably have ninety-nine laws that explain 3 percent of all economic behavior, and it’s a source of terrible frustration for us. So we sometimes cloak our ideas in the trappings of physics. We make axioms from which we derive seemingly mathematically rigorous universal economic principles, carefully calibrated simulations, and the very occasional empirical test of those theories.
    2. the economy and stock market are complex adaptive systems that are based on human interaction plus reaction to external stimuli—me watching you watching me—creating feedback loops that lead to unpredictable results
    3. **The lesson is that your first reaction should be skepticism, not reliance, when you hear an economic or market
   forecast.**

- WHY EXPERTS MAKE PREDICTIONS EVEN THOUGH THEY AREN’T GOOD AT IT
  - OVERCONFIDENCE
    1. **confidence is inversely related to the ability to predict the future**
    2. We should always be wary of overconfidence. While we’re wired to crave confident-sounding predictions, we need to
        train ourselves not to listen to them.
    3. **we should embrace the inherent uncertainty of the future and learn to sit in our discomfort.**
    4. Making changes to our portfolios or other aspects of our lives **based on our confidence in our predictive abilities
       is likely to turn out badly**.
  - THE ILLUSION OF VALIDITY
    1. The problem is that many of the patterns we see are meaningless. But our brains insist on finding coherence—a narrative when there is none.This drive to discover patterns and explain them is a major factor in overconfidence.
    2. As long as the explanation we construct is coherent, we trust it. We can’t help it. Explanations give us confidence that we understand the world, and that makes us feel safe.
    3. Our reluctance to acknowledge unpredictability keeps us looking for predictive cues well beyond the point of diminishing returns.
  - TOO MUCH INFORMATION
    1. our working memory serves as a severe bottleneck to our ability to process complex information. We can only juggle a handful of items of information at a time.
    2. possessing more information can increase our confidence without improving our predictive or decision-making ability.
    3. More information leads to more confidence, but after a certain point it harms the ability to make decisions.
    
- EXPERTS MAKE PREDICTIONS BECAUSE WE WANT THEM TO

1. It all boils down to our dislike of uncertainty. We seek predictions because we don’t like not knowing what the future holds. When we don’t know, we’re stressed and want relief in the form of certainty.
2. Of course, investing in the stock market necessarily involves uncertainty, so seeking expert opinions is a way to trick ourselves into thinking we’re addressing our discomfort. This feeling of relief persists even when the prediction turns out wrong.

- DO EXPERT FORECASTERS LEARN FROM THEIR MISTAKES?

1. unpredictable events happen all the time. You don’t get a mulligan because a tsunami, pandemic, or terrorist attack occurred. These unpredictable events are part of the fabric of life and constitute a major part of the uncertainty that makes predicting the future so hard.

- WHERE PREDICTIONS ADD VALUE

1. In sufficiently regular environments (not complex adaptive systems or ones commonly subject to unexpected disruptions like the economy and the stock market) that give us time to learn about them, predictions can be quite accurate.
2. we shouldn’t disregard all predictions about the future: just those in areas that are not amenable to prediction . . . like the financial markets.

- THE MENTAL MODELS AND HOW TO APPLY THEM

1. forecasts—particularly from geopolitical, investment, and economic experts—are highly questionable at best.
2. The biggest investing misconception is that forecasting is a key component of successful investing. It’s not. It would be nice to have a crystal ball, but they don’t exist.
3. At first, this may sound depressing. But accepting this reality is freeing. Forget about trying to sift through the torrent of daily financial information. Don’t try to find some mythical investment guru who can see around corners and predict the future. Instead, look for help from an experienced (and humble) guide who can explain the myriad types of investments and advise you on portfolio construction and their tax implications. That’s essential, that’s useful, and it’s a whole lot better than depending on someone who claims to have an infallible crystal ball in their closet.
4. Using market predictions to inform investment decisions is like preparing your boat to go to sea based on weather forecasts that someone made up.
5. **It would be better to prepare your boat well for both storms and fine weather. That’s how it is with investing.Since we can’t predict what the markets will do, we should be well prepared for up and down years.**

```text
Not seeing a tsunami or an economic event coming is excusable; building something fragile to them is not.
```