```text
Success = talent + luck

Great success = a little more talent + a lot of luck.
```

- SKILL AND LUCK AS OUTCOME DETERMINANTS

1. Can an amateur beat a pro? and if so, how often?
2. Can you lose on purpose?

The answers to the two questions illustrate that investment results have a significant luck component. Skill matters,
but a highly skilled stock picker can have bad outcomes due to bad luck, and someone with no stock-picking skill can do
well due to good luck.

- IT’S HARD TO BEAT THE MARKET

1. luck plays a significant role in investment returns. Hiring an investment manager with good past returns is no
   guarantee of future success

- WHY LUCK PLAYS SUCH A BIG ROLE IN INVESTMENT RESULTS

    - THE PARADOX OF SKILL
        1. Even though investing is toward the luck-based end of the skill-luck continuum, it doesn’t mean that
           investment professionals are unskilled.
        2. **as skill improves, performance becomes more consistent, and therefore luck becomes more important.**
        3. **paradox of skill: as the level of skill increases, so does the role of chance in outcomes.**

    - THE SKEW: MOST STOCKS UNDERPERFORM THE MARKET
        1. This phenomenon of the average being above the median is called a positively skewed distribution, in this
           case, of returns.
        2. The skew occurs because while the most a stock can lose is 100 percent, it can gain well above 100 percent.
           The skew also happens because, mathematically, the compounding of random returns, even if symmetrically
           distributed, creates a skewed distribution of returns over time.
        3. **The skew doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t ever own individual stocks, but rather that you should know the
           odds are against you. It also means that if you invest in a concentrated fund (meaning one that owns
           relatively few stocks), you should expect that, given the odds, it will probably underperform the market. But
           the fund also may outperform and do so in a big way.**
        4. **Another thing to keep in mind is that even if you pick a stock that will outperform over the coming
           decades, it may be hard to stick with it.**

- WHAT MONKEYS CAN TEACH US ABOUT INVESTING
    - WHY THE MARKET IS FLAWED
        1. The conclusion to draw is that the popular cap-weighted market portfolio is fundamentally flawed. A broadly
           diversified portfolio weighted by using almost any set of rules other than capitalization should outperform
           the market over (long) periods with a high degree of certainty.
    - IF THE MARKET IS FLAWED, WHY IS BEATING IT SO HARD?
        1. Investing in a broadly diversified manner differently than the market is a simple concept but not easy to
           follow because it is behaviorally hard.
        2. **Emotionally, it can be tough to stick to the strategy over the short term, even if you’re confident that it
           will outperform over the long.**
    - WHAT SHOULD WE DO WITH THIS KNOWLEDGE?
        1. the paradox of the herd: to get different returns than the market, you must invest differently but that means
           leaving the herd. That’s not easy because the herd provides safety—perhaps not in reality, but emotionally.
        2. **Knowing that the market is flawed but hard to beat is a vital mental model in our tool chest. As an
           investor, you should ask yourself if you can bear experiencing lower returns than the market for long
           periods. Most people can’t, and they should buy index funds that track the cap-weighted market so that the
           pain of underperforming the market is alleviated by the knowledge that the herd shares their pain.
           Additionally, cap-weighted index funds are low-cost and tax efficient, which is another reason they may be
           appropriate for investors.**
        3. A successful strategy can be to combine core holdings of index funds with active managers or factor-weighted
           portfolios.
        4. **What’s most important is (a) to have a strategy and (b) to stick with it. Discipline and patience are two
           of the most important determinants of successful investing.**

- A WORD ABOUT PRIVATE INVESTMENTS
  钱不够可以忽略
- CREATING VERSUS PRESERVING GREAT WEALTH

  - How can you generate tens or hundreds of millions of dollars of wealth through investing given the dour view of skill versus luck this chapter has laid out? The answer is that you probably can’t.

  **High-income earners like doctors and lawyers make a nice living, but people who vault into tens of millions of dollars
  or more of wealth are business owners with remarkably similar strategies.** They:
    1. **concentrate their assets**, usually in a single company. This increases the chances of winning big if their one big bet
     pays off.
    2. **tolerate a high level of risk**: their success or failure depends on their company. If it takes off, they are rich; if
    it flounders or fails, they aren’t.
    3. **are obsessed: they invest almost all their time and talent in their business.** Building the company is their singular
       focus and takes over much of their lives.
    4. And **luck plays a role too**. Looking back, successful company owners can identify how everything seemed to come
       together “just so.” If a few things had happened a bit differently, their company wouldn’t have been as successful.
       On 

```text
Being a business owner is risky. Yes, the payoff can be huge, but there’s also a good chance that there will be no gold at the end of the rainbow, as around 70 percent of companies don’t make it to their tenth birthday.
```

**investing in a diversified portfolio is more about prudently growing and preserving wealth than making you a zillionaire.**
In fact, the strategies for preserving wealth are largely the opposite of those for generating it:
1. **Instead of being concentrated, diversify**. Spreading wealth among many investments eliminates the chances of losing it all.
2. **Lower the overall level of risk** by reducing leverage and **building a margin of safety** by allocating to bonds and cash.
3. **Involvement moves from active to passive**. Being an investor means investing in someone else’s company. Investors generally don’t influence the success of the companies in which they invest (unless they are a private equity manager, which is its own business).
4. **Mitigate the effects of luck by following a disciplined investment process. Setting portfolio strategy and rebalancing are essential tools for long-term success.**

**Preserving and smartly growing wealth requires a mindset and discipline that avoid huge losses.**

- THE MENTAL MODELS AND HOW TO APPLY THEM

1. Luck plays a big role in investing, so we shouldn’t read too much into good or bad results over short periods.
2. Most active managers underperform after fees.
3. Most stocks underperform the market.
4. Beating the market requires investing differently than the market, which requires great heart and discipline.
5. It is easier to outperform in private investing, primarily due to information asymmetries that don’t exist in public markets. If you have the financial resources, adding private investments to a portfolio with skilled investment managers is a sound strategy.