```text
A trend is a trend is a trend. But the question is, will it bend? Will it alter its course through some unforeseen force and come to a premature end?
```

There are challenges to investing in trends that every investor should know about. Let’s hit the big ones:
1.  it’s difficult to spot a trend early
2. trends don’t always turn out as imagined 
3. it’s difficult to find a successful needle in a haystack of competitors.

- IT’S DIFFICULT TO SPOT A TREND EARLY

1.  **It’s challenging to discern fantasy from reality in the early stages of an emerging trend or technology, and great ideas often seem outlandish near their inception.** (AI?)
2. Predicting how a trend will evolve is tough.

- EXPONENTIAL GROWTH MAKES TRENDSPOTTING PROBLEMATIC

1. Trends are hard to spot in the early stages because they don’t produce significant change at first. They tend to start small and grow incrementally. But as growth builds on growth, fundamental change breaks through.
2. A key feature of exponential growth is that it seems to **start gradually and then accelerates over time**. Unfortunately, humans generally are linear thinkers and don’t easily grasp how exponential growth can create extraordinary change.
3. **Repeated doubling, which is a type of exponential growth**, is an explosive process and one for which our minds are ill-equipped.

- HOW TO THINK ABOUT EXPONENTIAL GROWTH— BELOW-THE-WATERLINE THINKING

1. The idea that a lot can be going on below the waterline is a good analogy for thinking about exponential growth. Growth on growth can happen without attracting attention, and then, suddenly, everything changes massively.
2. The key concept of below-the-waterline thinking is that things that grow exponentially don’t move the needle early on but then seemingly produce huge effects as they crest the waterline.

- ALL SORTS OF THINGS GROW EXPONENTIALLY

1. Not all growth is exponential, but new business models, technologies, and ideas that deliver significant change do grow exponentially and do so at high rates of increase.

- TRENDS DON’T ALWAYS TURN OUT AS IMAGINED

1. Well-established trends seem like they’ll go on forever, but they don’t; innovation, new ideas, and technology alter the path of established trends and create new ones.
2. **firmly established trends, even longstanding and seemingly durable ones, can and do change.**
3. **Stein’s law: If something cannot go on forever, it will stop**.it tells us that when we see a trend that isn’t sustainable, it isn’t. Trends that seem as though they will continue forever just won’t.
4. This is incredibly useful to keep in mind, especially when a trend that confronts us seems to keep going and going and going. That trends don’t go on forever isn’t necessarily a bad thing because their demise is often the result of new ideas, innovation, and technology.
5. Notably, Stein’s law has two corollaries concerning things that can’t go on forever:
   1. It will go on longer than we think (known as Davies’ Corollary). 
   2. It will stop even if nobody does anything to stop it.

- IT’S DIFFICULT TO FIND A SUCCESSFUL NEEDLE IN A HAYSTACK OF COMPETITORS

1. A challenge of trends is that even when you spot one early and it persists, it’s difficult to make money investing in the trend due to the competitive nature of early industries and technologies.
2. **That Google was the twenty-first search engine is important to keep in mind when considering investing in early industry leaders.**
3. **The early movers in a new industry usually don’t end up the winners.**（OpenAI?拭目以待）
4. Companies that are fast followers tend to end up with the greatest market share. Research out of the University of Southern California found that market pioneers fail about half the time, and as a group, they only average 7 percent of the long-term market share. On average, the companies that end up dominating young industries enter the market thirteen years after the pioneers.
5. **The phrase creative destruction refers to the “incessant product and process innovation by which new production units replace outdated ones.**
6. **Creative destruction is a corollary to the idea that trends are difficult to spot early. Once a trend is established, it becomes widely known; once it’s widely known, there are many companies and investors competing to take advantage of the trend. At that point, the competition results in higher company valuations and reduces the likelihood of investors making money off the trend.**

- THE MENTAL MODELS AND HOW TO APPLY THEM

1. Profitably investing in trends is challenging:
   1. It’s hard to spot trends early, partially due to the challenges of comprehending the nature of exponential growth.
   2. Established trends can change course rapidly as new competitors and technologies upend trends.
   3. It’s hard to pick winners. As new technologies create new industries, many companies enter, and most fail. Early pioneers usually aren’t the long-term winners. Instead, fast followers often are the most successful.
2. This doesn’t mean that you should never invest in trends. Instead, approach them with your eyes wide open.
   1. Be skeptical. That will help you resist the urge to jump on the new thing.
   2. Diversify. As tempting as it is to go all in on one promising company, remember that it’s hard to pick winners early. If you want to invest in a trend, using a thematic ETF tracking an index, a commodity, or a bunch of funds is an excellent way to hop on a trend in a diversified manner
   3. Use venture capital or specialty funds. Unless you have information or knowledge that gives you an advantage in an early industry or trend, it’s wise to use venture capital funds or specialty managers to identify trends and pick the potential winning companies.
3. **don’t fret about missing out on a new trend**. You probably have exposure to whatever trend you want to invest in already.