```text
Our world is dominated by the extreme, the unknown, and the very improbable (improbable according to our current knowledge)—and all the while we spend our time engaged in small talk, focusing on the known, and the repeated.
```

- BELL CURVES EVERYWHERE

1. The bell curve says so. In that way, consciously or not, it shapes our expectations and allows us to make certain predictions confidently.
2. **But bell curve distributions aren’t universal, and using them to shape expectations where they don’t apply is a big mistake that can have serious consequences.**

- HOW THE BELL CURVE BETRAYED ME

1. The dotcom bust opened my eyes to the flaws of the bell curve when applied to investing. I never trusted it again.

- RANDOMNESS MILD AND WILD

1. **follow a bell curve distribution as providing “mild randomness.” There is variability, but most of the events we observe conform to our expectations.**
2. **If the stock market followed a bell curve, on most days there would be small price movements around the average, more significant price movements would be rarer as we moved away from the norm, and massive price changes would almost never happen. But that’s not the stock market we know and love.**
3. **We get lulled into thinking that the stock market delivers mild randomness because, most of the time, it does. Days, months, and even years go by with the market bouncing around within an expected range. But then, every so often, wild randomness erupts as huge price swings occur with little or no warning**
4. Extreme price movements happen often enough that the only thing surprising about them is that we are surprised when they happen.
5. **using bell curve–based statistics in investing is like “focusing on the grass and missing out on the (gigantic) trees.**

- FRACTALS AND POWER LAWS: BETTER MODELS OF THE FINANCIAL MARKETS

1. **as you zoom in and zoom out on a coastline, it has the same approximate rough shape. This attribute—looking similar at both more precise and less precise resolutions—is called self-similarity.**
2. Mandelbrot’s insight was that most shapes in nature follow a self-similar pattern as coastlines and ferns. The smooth shapes of Euclidean geometry that we learn in school—squares, rectangles, triangles, circles— don’t serve us when describing the natural world.
3. Mandelbrot dubbed the complexity and roughness of shapes found in nature as fractal, which comes from the Latin word for broken. Thus, **a fractal is a geometric shape that can be broken into smaller parts, with each little part being a smaller-scale facsimile of the larger.**
4. **The roughness, wild randomness, and self-similar pattern of fractals better describe price changes in the financial markets than the bell curve.**
5. **viewing the markets through a fractal lens gives us the proper perspective about what sort of market volatility we should expect.**
6. **Data that is fractal produces a power law distribution rather than a bell curve distribution. Therefore, thinking in terms of power laws rather than bell curves is essential for developing proper expectations for investment returns.**

- POWER LAWS—THE TRIVIAL MANY VERSUS THE VITAL FEW

1.  **relatively few inputs generate the most significant effects,with the rest tapering off quickly**
2. With power law distributions, it’s the “trivial many versus the vital few
3. **This power law distribution of returns means that there are a vital few days that drive stock market returns.**

- SO, WHY DO BELL CURVE STATISTICS CONTINUE TO BE USED?

1. Bell curve–based projections of market returns and volatility provide a comforting sense of certainty because they estimate that randomness will be mild and outliers will be rare. But this provides a false sense of certainty once we know that’s not how the markets behave.
2. **psychological biases and our tendency to understate uncertainty in order to provide an illusion of understanding the world.**
3. **a fractal view of the market doesn’t predict what future returns will be, like the bell curve does. Instead, accepting the fractal/power law view of financial markets means accepting inherent uncertainty and wild randomness.**
4. **setting investor expectations using the mild randomness of the bell curve (as I did in 1999 at Arthur Andersen) doesn’t prepare them for the wild randomness that’s bound to occur.**

- THE MENTAL MODELS AND HOW TO APPLY THEM

1. The bell curve is a useful statistical tool in many areas of life, but it’s mis-applied in the investment arena. It wrongly sets the expectation of mild randomness, when we should be prepared for wild randomness.
2. **Nobody likes uncertainty, and our need for certainty is often what shapes our actions. We’d rather use a flawed model that provides a sense of certainty than a more accurate model that tells us that extreme events are bound to happen unexpectedly.**
3. **Instead of relying on what we now know to be fanciful projections of movements and returns**, you will be better served if you: 
   1. **Embrace the uncertainty inherent in the markets; prepare for gigantic swings that could (and will) be just around the corner.**
   2. **Stress test your portfolios by modeling what would happen if we experienced another 1929 crash, a 2000 dotcom bust, or a 2008– 2009 financial crisis (or an even bigger event). Will your portfolio still meet your cash flow needs?**
   3. **Stress test yourself. Can you emotionally handle that much volatility?**
   4. **Maintain an adequate margin of safety to ride out extreme downside events.**
   5. **Avoid excessive debt.**
   6. **After designing your portfolio to weather wild storms, sail on. Moving in and out of investments may result in missing the best days in the market, thereby devastating portfolio returns.**
