```text
The foundation of political economy and, in general, of every social science, is evidently psychology.
```

- THE ENDOWMENT EFFECT

1. **We all overvalue what we have.** This is a behavioral bias called the endowment effect.
2. In addition to the endowment effect, there are hundreds of built-in biases that color our thinking and decision making. These biases persist because they aided our survival in an ancient world of scarcity and mortal risk that rewarded what our brains told us was the safer course. Other biases evolved because of our need to be part of a social group and seek status because belonging and status improved an individual’s chances of survival and reproductive success.
3. Behavioral biases don’t just distort the perceived value of our possessions; they lead us to make poor decisions in every aspect of our lives, including investments.

- STORYTELLING BIAS

  **We rarely stop to consider base rate probabilities. Instead, it’s human nature to view the world through stories and ignore, as Kahneman put it, “the statistics of the class to which the case belongs.**
   - STORIES ARE MORE POWERFUL THAN FACTS
     1. Storytelling allowed us to create and share complicated ideas efficiently, and stories enable large groups of strangers to identify and work together.
     2. Everything that Harari mentions (nations, laws, money) is conceptual; none of it has a physical reality; they’re agreed-upon fictions. 
     3. **Stories have the almost magical ability to make events and things that don’t tangibly exist inculcate values**
     4. Stories lead people to believe in shared goals and purposes.
     5. Much of our interactions with other people consists of telling stories.
     6. Because we’ve evolved to be storytellers and story exchangers, **we pay special attention to stories; they greatly influence our worldview and our decisions.**
     7. **A single story can exert more sway over our decisions than reams of data, analysis, and statistics.**
   - BASE RATE IGNORANCE
     1. Stories about a single patient’s experience made the study participants throw the base rate out the window and make a bad decision.
   - BAD BLOOD
     1. **A compelling story can lead to a bad investment**（AI?）
   - STORY LESSONS
     1. **The world of investing is full of stories.**
     2. **we’re swayed by them because that’s how we’re wired.**
     3. Developing a mental model about stories is essential to successful investing. That starts with **understanding that a story will have an outsized effect on your decision making.**
     4. **Train yourself to seek out the base rate (as with farmers and librarians or drug treatment options) and add that to the mix.**
     5. **Learn to recognize when you’re being told a story and realize that the story will have an outsized effect on your decision making.**

- HINDSIGHT BIAS

**Hindsight bias is the idea that because the past can be easily explained from our perch in the present, the future should be predictable.**
  - INVISIBLE HISTORIES
    1. **Viewing the past through the lens of invisible histories is an essential mental model for fighting hindsight bias and regret.**
    2. a mental model I call invisible histories—**things that could have happened but didn’t.**
  - THE RESULTING FALLACY
    1. **We tend to judge the quality of decisions by the results they produce. But good decisions sometimes produce bad results, and bad decisions can produce good ones. This tendency to judge decisions primarily by results is a form of hindsight bias known as the resulting fallacy**
    2. **A combination of skill and luck created the results in most situations.**
    3. **the resulting fallacy occurs when we create “too tight a relationship between the quality of the outcome and the quality of the decision.” She says, “knowing the outcome infects us” and causes us to judge a decision or process based mainly on that.**
    4. **The problem is that we’re all ‘resulters’ at heart.**
    5. Recognizing the resulting fallacy mental model is essential to fighting hindsight bias. **The world is filled with randomness, and many outcomes are the result of luck, which means sometimes good decisions don’t work out.**
- SUNK COSTS AND THE LOSS AVERSION BIAS
  1. Setting aside sunk costs when making decisions is challenging because we hate to lock in a loss.
  2. we view gains and losses asymmetrically. Losses are more painful than gains are pleasurable. This asymmetry is known as loss aversion.
  - PROSPECT THEORY
    1. historically, we enhanced our survival and reproductive chances when we prioritized threats over opportunities.
    2. Losses are about 1.5 to 2 times more painful than gains are pleasurable.
    3. Evaluation of gains and losses is relative to a reference point. Our reference points reset over time and turn into high-water marks.
    4. There is varying sensitivity to gains and losses.
    5. People engage in risk-seeking behavior to avoid taking a loss.
  - APPLYING THE LOSS AVERSION MENTAL MODEL
    1. **Loss aversion in all its flavors negatively impacts our investment behavior. It causes us to misjudge risk by ascribing outsized pain to losses and skewing our evaluation of risk and reward.**
    2. two helpful behavior hacks that fight loss aversion:
       1. First, **avoid looking at your portfolio**. Taking a look at your portfolio every day will provide approximately two units of pain half the time, compared to only one unit of pleasure the other days, rewarding you with more pain than pleasure by a two-to-one margin.
       2. Second, **make yourself take losses. inactivity and patience are generally better investment practices than tinkering and trading. The lesson is that you should be mindful of your loss aversion when making investment decisions.Asking yourself, “Would I buy more?” can help you make a more rational decision.**
       
- OVERCONFIDENCE: THE MOTHER OF ALL BIASES
  
1. **We see ourselves through rose-colored glasses**
2. **We think we have more control over our lives than we really do.**

   - THE ILLUSION OF EXPLANATORY DEPTH
     1. **This flaw in our reasoning is called The Illusion of Explanatory Depth and is one of many flavors of overconfidence bias.**
     2. This flaw in our reasoning is called The Illusion of Explanatory Depth and is one of many flavors of overconfidence bias.
     3. **Thinking we know more about how the world works than we do affects our opinions and beliefs, and how we make investment decisions.**
   - WHY WE’RE OVERCONFIDENT
     1. **Overconfidence leads to overinflated self-perceptions, unrealistic expectations, and bad decisions**
     2. overconfidence confers psychological benefits, such as self-esteem, mental health, and greater motivation
     3. there are social and status benefits conferred by appearing confident.higher status generally leads to greater reproductive success.We can see the advantages of overconfidence in how people who display it appear more compelling and believable.
     4. confidence, even when baseless, can lead to greater success when competing with others.
   - WHAT TO DO ABOUT OVERCONFIDENCE
     1. **it is imperative to recognize that we’re all overconfident. None of us knows as much as we think we do.**
     2. **Whenever we make decisions, we need to step back and be less sure of what we know.**
     3. **In essence, we need to have more humility about how much we know.**
     4. **recognize that we are drawn to overconfident people, and an expert’s confidence level and ability to make accurate predictions are negatively correlated.**
     5. **We all tend to ascribe behavioral biases to other people (an example of our overconfidence bias), and we think that we’ll be able to avoid those biases if we just learn about them. Unfortunately, that’s not the case.**
     6. I’m **on the lookout for them and try to resist them** when I see them.
   Battling our biases is an uphill battle, but we can make progress.There are processes and strategies that we all can put in place that will help us make better decisions without being overly influenced by biases.